dapp/README.md, before:

# dApp

The frontend application for Sui Venture.
It is bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Quickstart

### Prepare the environment variables
1. Run `vercel link` in the root directory of the project (not inside the dapp/ directory) and link to the existing project
2. Run the following commands to prepare your .env files:

- To pull the preview environment's configuration locally:
  ```
  vercel env pull --environment=preview dapp/.env.preview
  ```
- If for any reason you need the production env's configuration locally (needs attention, do not try this at home)
  ```
  vercel env pull --environment=production dapp/.env.production
  ```
- Attention: If you have any other `.env` files locally, they will override the above ones causing unexpected behaviour in case they match the [naming conventions of NextJS](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/guides/environment-variables#environment-variable-load-order)

3. Install the dependencies with: `bun install`


### Run the local development server

- Using preview's configuration:
  ```
  bun run dev:preview
  ```
- Using production's (attention):
  ```
  bun run dev:production
  ```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## UI Theming

### Tech Stack

- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/)

### Design Tokens

Design tokens are defined as CSS variables in [`globals.css`](./src/app/globals.css).

The `:root` and `.dark` selectors define two categories of tokens:

| Category     | Prefix                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Example usage                        |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Coloring** | Variant (e.g. `--primary`, `--background`) | Consumed by `--color-*` utilities in the `@theme` block. Defaults are aligned with shadcn/ui components. Should also be used in custom components for consistency. **Heavily customized per product.**                              | `bg-primary text-primary-foreground` |
| **Sizing**   | `--size-*` → `--spacing-*`, `--radius-*`   | Base size scale (`--size-*`) feeds into spacing and radius tokens. Reusable across products. Canonical definitions live in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/gJvboyotCv3bDDhcL0a3QF/0.0---DS---Slush?node-id=11033-64025&m=dev). | `p-md m-lg space-x-sm rounded-lg`    |

### Dark Mode

The `.dark` selector overrides only **color variables** and is applied after `@theme inline`.  
Enable dark mode globally by adding the `dark` class to `<html>` or the app root.

### Customization Guidelines

- **Colors & Typography** → project-specific. Override in `:root` / `.dark`.
- **Spacing & Radius** → shared across projects. Keep token names stable; only adjust values if the base scale itself changes.

## Wallet Connection

The dapp template allows connecting your Sui wallet either using the classic browser extensions (eg Slush, Phantom) or signing in with Google with Enoki.

### Tech Stack

- [Sui dApp kit](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit)
- [Enoki TS SDK](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk)

### Customization

- [Remove Enoki Sign In from wallet modal](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/sign-in#removing-enoki-wallets-from-the-connectbutton-modal)
- [Use custom buttons for enoki signin](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/sign-in#using-custom-login-buttons)
- [Add other auth providers for Enoki Sign In](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/register#react-integration)

### Add a specific Google project (can be generalised to other auth providers)

The current `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` is a draft one used for the dapp template.
Whenever we want to add google sign in to a new product, we have to:

1. Create the google project in the google console, under the `Solutions Engineering` team [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials?project=solutions-engineering-418016) (reminder to update the allowlisted redirect uris accordingly)
2. Create the Enoki project in Enoki Portal [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng)
3. Create an Enoki public api key in the `Overview` tab of the project, as we did for the dApp Template [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng/apps/dapp-template)
4. Connect the authentication provider to the Enoki project in the `Auth Providers` tab of the project in Enoki portal, as we did [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng/apps/dapp-template/auth)
5. Update the corresponding env variables in the `dapp/.env`:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_ENOKI_PUBLIC_KEY=""
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=""
```

Commit message:

Add SuiVenture PRD Implementation Plan and enhance error handling documentation
- Introduced a detailed implementation plan for the SuiVenture MVP, outlining architecture, smart contracts, and gameplay mechanics.
- Added guidelines for better error handling in Move, emphasizing the use of distinct abort codes and safe check functions.
- Updated the README for the dApp to clarify its purpose and setup instructions.
- Changed the default network in the environment configuration from localnet to testnet.

dapp/README.md, after:

# SuiVenture dApp

Next.js frontend for SuiVenture. Bottom nav: **Gacha** | **Inventory** | **Battle** | **Pet**.

## Quickstart

### Env vars

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` or `.env.local`. Required for wallet/network:

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUI_NETWORK` (e.g. `testnet`)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUI_FULLNODE_URL`
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENOKI_PUBLIC_KEY`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` (optional, for Enoki sign-in)

After deploying the Move package (see repo root README), set in `.env.local`:

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_PACKAGE_ID` – from publish output
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_NFT_MINT_AUTHORITY_ID` – from publish output (created in `nft_collection::init`)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_GACHA_GEAR_ID`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_GACHA_PET_ID` – from publish output (**Created Objects**); `gacha_gear::init` and `gacha_pet::init` create one shared GachaGear and one shared GachaPet on publish
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_RANDOM_ID` – Sui system Random object ID for the network (required for gacha and battle). On testnet/devnet get it from chain config or a “get random object” query
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_TRANSFER_POLICY_GEAR_ID`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_TRANSFER_POLICY_PET_ID` – **not** from publish. After publish, call **once** `marketplace::create_marketplace_policies(publisher)` with your **Publisher** (from publish); use the **Created Objects** (the two shared TransferPolicy IDs) from that tx. The two TransferPolicyCap objects go to your wallet (admin)

### Install and run

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Default route is `/gacha`.

## UI Theming

### Tech Stack

- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/)

### Design Tokens

Design tokens are defined as CSS variables in [`globals.css`](./src/app/globals.css).

The `:root` and `.dark` selectors define two categories of tokens:

| Category     | Prefix                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Example usage                        |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Coloring** | Variant (e.g. `--primary`, `--background`) | Consumed by `--color-*` utilities in the `@theme` block. Defaults are aligned with shadcn/ui components. Should also be used in custom components for consistency. **Heavily customized per product.**                              | `bg-primary text-primary-foreground` |
| **Sizing**   | `--size-*` → `--spacing-*`, `--radius-*`   | Base size scale (`--size-*`) feeds into spacing and radius tokens. Reusable across products. Canonical definitions live in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/gJvboyotCv3bDDhcL0a3QF/0.0---DS---Slush?node-id=11033-64025&m=dev). | `p-md m-lg space-x-sm rounded-lg`    |

### Dark Mode

The `.dark` selector overrides only **color variables** and is applied after `@theme inline`.  
Enable dark mode globally by adding the `dark` class to `<html>` or the app root.

### Customization Guidelines

- **Colors & Typography** → project-specific. Override in `:root` / `.dark`.
- **Spacing & Radius** → shared across projects. Keep token names stable; only adjust values if the base scale itself changes.

## Wallet Connection

The dapp template allows connecting your Sui wallet either using the classic browser extensions (eg Slush, Phantom) or signing in with Google with Enoki.

### Tech Stack

- [Sui dApp kit](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit)
- [Enoki TS SDK](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk)

### Customization

- [Remove Enoki Sign In from wallet modal](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/sign-in#removing-enoki-wallets-from-the-connectbutton-modal)
- [Use custom buttons for enoki signin](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/sign-in#using-custom-login-buttons)
- [Add other auth providers for Enoki Sign In](https://docs.enoki.mystenlabs.com/ts-sdk/register#react-integration)

### Add a specific Google project (can be generalised to other auth providers)

The current `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` is a draft one used for the dapp template.
Whenever we want to add google sign in to a new product, we have to:

1. Create the google project in the google console, under the `Solutions Engineering` team [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials?project=solutions-engineering-418016) (reminder to update the allowlisted redirect uris accordingly)
2. Create the Enoki project in Enoki Portal [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng)
3. Create an Enoki public api key in the `Overview` tab of the project, as we did for the dApp Template [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng/apps/dapp-template)
4. Connect the authentication provider to the Enoki project in the `Auth Providers` tab of the project in Enoki portal, as we did [here](https://portal.enoki.mystenlabs.com/teams/solutions-eng/apps/dapp-template/auth)
5. Update the corresponding env variables in the `dapp/.env`:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_ENOKI_PUBLIC_KEY=""
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=""
```
